#summary These notes are in addition to the information and Known Issues listed in the help file, please make sure any problems you encounter are not listed there before reporting them.
#labels Featured

= Release Notes 0.4.2 =
<p>
Users who have customized their ~/.fonts.conf, should take a backup before 
running Font Manager. After running Font Manager, you can add your customizations 
to ~/.!FontManager/config/render.conf, just create the file if it doesn't exist. 
This will ensure that they do not get overwritten by the application.
</p>

<p>
An option to include a pdf sample sheet has been added when exporting collections, 
you need to have the Report Lab Toolkit installed for this option to be available, 
on most distributions this is readily available in your package manager as python-reportlab.

Please note that this feature is not well tested, if you have any problems please file an issue.

However, please do not file issues regarding fonts that have naming issues, are broken or those 
that restrict embedding in their license, if you need to rename, fix or maybe you just don't care about 
licenses then a font editor is your friend.

Also, I suggest you do not try to create a sample sheet for any collection that exceeds 2500 fonts.

Doing so can not only take a long time but also lots of cpu and loads of memory.
</p>

<p>
An autoscan option has been added to the preferences dialog, this option is *not* 
well tested or complete, there is no progress reported, aside from directories 
being added to the list, and for now there is no way to cancel the operation aside 
from killing the application.

Autoscan looks in your home directory and attempts to find any folders that contain fonts.
</p>

<p>
You probably should *not* use this feature if you have network shares or other 
filesystems to which access may be very slow in your home path. If you wish to test 
it anyways, you can just kill the application if the scan is taking too long, 
changes are not applied automatically so it shouldn't be a problem if this 
process is interrupted.
</p>

<p>
The application now restarts itself anytime fonts are installed or removed through it, 
if a lot of fonts are installed at once it may take a moment to start back up.
</p>

=== Notes for those installing from source ===
<p>
Check the README for requirements, and make sure they are available, they should 
be on any recent distro. Configure does not check for deps, 
deps are checked at runtime and then only for the required python modules.

If updating from source, make sure to completely remove the previous version, 
either by running 'make uninstall' from the source directory or by doing something like

rm -rf /usr/local/share/font-manager

or whatever prefix you specified during the install.
</p>

=== Localization ===
<p>
Not sure how friendly this app is to other locales, but if it works well in yours 
and you are able to provide a translation for it, please grab the package 
tagged i18n from the downloads section on the homepage.

Thanks in advance.
</p>

==== Other ====
<p>
My apologies to anyone who is working on or has already completed a translation, 
I think I may have jumped the gun on requesting those, a lot has changed 
between 0.3 and 0.4 so those will need to be updated.

At this point, I'm pretty satisfied with the feature set and feel that the 
application is pretty useful as is. The focus now shifts to improving on what's 
already there. So releases will be done at a much slower pace, and the next few 
releases will not see anything in the way of added features, releases will only be 
done for critical bugs or when there are enough bugfixes/translations/enhancements to warrant it.
</p>